# Python Classes

- A class is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. Classes provide a means of bundling data and functionality together.
- Creating a new class creates a new type of object, allowing new instances of that type to be made.
- Each class instance can have attributes attached to it for maintaining its state.
- Class instances can also have methods (defined by their class) for modifying their state.

- To understand the need for creating a class in Python.
- let’s consider an example:
  - let’s say you wanted to track the number of `dogs` that may have different **attributes** like *breed*, *age*.
  - If a list is used, the first element could be the dog’s breed while the second element could represent its age.
  - Let’s suppose there are **100** different `dogs`, then how would you know which element is supposed to be which? What if you wanted to add other properties to these dogs?
  - This lacks organization and it’s the exact need for classes.

## Class syntax

```py
class ClassName:
# Statement

  # Object Definiation Syntax:
  obj = ClassName()
  print(obj.atrr)
```

- Class creates a user-defined data structure, which holds its own data members and member functions, which can be accessed and used by creating an instance of that class.
- A class is like a blueprint for an object

**Some points on Python class:**
1. Classes are created by keyword class.
2. Attributes are the variables that belong to a class.
3. Attributes are always public and can be accessed using the dot (.) operator.
   1. Eg.: Myclass.Myattribute
   2. ```py
      class Dog:
        pass
      ```

## Class Objects

