# Garbage Collector

- Python’s **memory allocation** and deallocation method is **automatic**. The user does not have to preallocate or deallocate memory similar to using dynamic memory allocation in languages such as `C` or `C++`.

- Python uses two strategies for memory allocation:
  1. Reference counting Garbage collection
  2. Manual Garbage Collection

## Reference counting Garbage collection

- Prior to Python version 2.0, the Python interpreter only used reference counting for memory management.
- Reference counting works by counting the number of times an object is referenced by other objects in the system.
- When references to an object are removed, the reference count for an object is decremented.
- When the reference count becomes zero, the object is deallocated. Ex-
- ```py
  # Literal 9 is an object
  b = 9

  # Reference count of object 9
  # becomes 0.
  b = 4
  ```
- The literal value `9` is an object. The reference count of object `9` is incremented to 1 in **line 1**.
- In **line 2** its reference count becomes `zero` as it is dereferenced. So garbage collector deallocates the object.


- A reference cycle is created when there is no way the reference count of the object can reach.
- Reference cycles involving lists, tuples, instances, classes, dictionaries, and functions are common.
- The easiest way to create a reference cycle is to create an object which refers to itself as in the example below:
- ```py
  def create_cycle():
    # create a list x
    x = [ ]

    # A reference cycle is created here as x contains reference to to self.
    x.append(x)
  
  create_cycle()
  ```